# `Decentralized Placement Portal`

Welcome to the Decentralized Placement Portal! This is a decentralized web application built on the Internet Computer Protocol (ICP), designed to streamline the process of job placements. It allows companies to post job openings, and students can apply for jobs in a secure, transparent, and decentralized environment.

Features:
- Student Registration: Students can apply for job listings.
- Company Registration: Companies can register, post job opportunities, view the list of applicants and shortlist them.
-  One-Time Applications: Students can apply only once to a particular company but can apply to multiple companies.
- Shortlisting: Companies can shortlist candidates from the pool of applicants. Cannot shortlist already shortlisted candiate.
- Decentralized Storage: All data is stored on the Internet Computer, ensuring that no single entity controls the data.

Prerequisites:
- Node.js (v14+ recommended)
- dfx (Internet Computer SDK)
- React.js
- IC for network deployment

To learn more before you start working with `PlacementPortal`, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd PlacementPortal/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Clone the repository and Install the necessary dependencies::
git clone https://github.com/your-username/placement-portal.git
cd placement-portal

#Install the necessary dependencies:
npm install
```

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start 

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generat
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
